---
layout: post
title:  "Musings"
date:   2014-04-18 08:54:44
categories: musings
---

It seems that I have lost my ability to work. It is as though there is no more
motivation that drives me forward.

Right now I am listening to
[Glinka](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mikhail_Glinka) piano music. The musical
pieces are simple and very Russian. Rachmaninoff once quoted
[Tchaikovsky](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyotr_Ilyich_Tchaikovsky)
saying,

> Glinka is like an acorn from which all of Russian music has sprung up.

I need to get back to taking pleasure from simple things. Simple things like
the short polka for children composed by Glinka. Listening to full blown
[Rachmaninoff](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sergei_Rachmaninoff) piano
concertos has spoiled me to some extent. After I have heard them for more than
a dozen of times, I started to feel like I have reached and glimpsed the top
most level of perfection. As if I have reached the end. There is nothing more.

But this is wrong on so many levels. Life is infinitely more complex than the
Rachmaninoff's Second Piano concerto. I must return back to the basics. Simple,
elegant, music pieces.

This philosophy of simplicity can then be transferred to the rest of my life.

The complex can be left for special occasions. I should rarely listen to the
very advanced. Just to wet my appetite. Maybe separate each advance piece by 20
or 30 simple, easy to listen to, pieces.

OK! So it has been decided. I will create a music library that will consist of:

1. 400 - 500 short, simple piano pieces.
2. 40 - 50 long, hard piano pieces.
3. 4 - 5 full piano concertos.

It's funny how I have begun this article with thoughts about my inability to
work, and concluded with a plan to create a musical collection consisting of
piano pieces. Lately piano has been on my mind.

PS: I am so very excited that I have finally fixed my laptop keyboard. Typing
has become so smooth and care-free! I did this on Wednesday by simply trying to
"rip" out the keyboard. I did not even bother to shutdown Linux. I was looking
at a [YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ys-7NjvciMM) that showed
how someone was replacing a keyboard on a laptop. In the end I did not manage
to take out the keyboard because it is actually fixated to the laptop by screws
which have to be unscrewed on the back. However, I did succeed in bending the
top of the keyboard ever so slightly, so that when I pushed it back in, all
the keys that were getting stuck before, now started to function properly. So
now I am just enjoying the typing. As I type now, I have the feeling as if my
fingers are little knifes that are passing through warm butter.
